# 🧑⚖ Rules

### Community Rules

1. <mark style="background-color:blue;">No</mark> griefing or stealing.
2. <mark style="background-color:purple;">No</mark> hacked clients, unapproved mods, or glitch exploits.
3. <mark style="background-color:orange;">Be</mark> respectful of others; be kind & remain appropriate.
4. <mark style="background-color:red;">All</mark> mob farm designs must be approved by staff. Most automatic farms are not allowed.
5. <mark style="background-color:yellow;">Follow</mark> the [character/roleplay guidelines](../guides/character-guide.md).
6. <mark style="background-color:green;">Maintain</mark> proper etiquette during events..
7. You must be at least 18 years old to join Chertia.
8. The answer to the last question on the whitelist application is "cargo pants"

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="129">Rule #</th><th>Rule</th><th width="100" data-type="rating" data-max="5">Severity</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><mark style="background-color:blue;">Rule 1 (1)</mark></td><td>You may not grief or steal from other players.</td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:blue;">Rule 1 (2)</mark></td><td>When building close to other players or builds, you must ensure there is a respectful distance between the edge of your area and the nearest edge of theirs.</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:purple;">Rule 2 (1)</mark></td><td>You may not use a hacked client, x-ray resource pack, macros, or any other modification that provides you with an unfair advantage over others.</td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:purple;">Rule 2 (2)</mark></td><td>You may not exploit bugs, glitches, noise patterns to provide you with an advantage. Intentionally neglecting to report exploitative bugs is a violation of this rule.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:purple;">Rule 2 (3)</mark></td><td>All client modifications must be approved by staff.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:orange;">Rule 3 (1)</mark></td><td>Harassment, bullying, racism, homophobia, or any similar behaviour will not be tolerated. </td><td>5</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:orange;">Rule 3 (2)</mark></td><td>You may not engage in non-consensual PVP.</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:orange;">Rule 3 (3)</mark></td><td>Maintain appropriate behaviour in chat channels (advertising, spam, steamrolling, correct channels, etc.). When posting sensitive images (things that may upset others) in Discord, please spoiler tag &#x26; label them.</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:orange;">Rule 3 (4)</mark></td><td>You must maintain respectful and appropriate behaviour at all times.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:red;">Rule 4 (1)</mark></td><td>All mob farm designs must be approved by staff.</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:red;">Rule 4 (2)</mark></td><td>Automatic farms, outside of those approved by staff, are not allowed.</td><td>3</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:red;">Rule 4 (3)</mark></td><td>Your farms, mob pens, and builds must be respectful of server resources and mechanics. Maximum 2 chunks per crop type.</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:yellow;">Rule 5</mark></td><td>Follow the character/roleplay guidelines.</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:green;">Rule 6 (1)</mark></td><td>If you are online during a story event, you must attend.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:green;">Rule 6 (2)</mark></td><td>During story events, unless otherwise instructed, stick with the group.</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td><mark style="background-color:green;">Rule 6 (3)</mark></td><td>During story events, do not attempt to derail the event (ex. stealing important items).</td><td>1</td></tr><tr><td>Rule 7</td><td>You must be at least the minimum required age to join Chertia.</td><td>null</td></tr><tr><td>Rule 8</td><td><em>The answer to the last question on the whitelist application is “cargo pants”.</em></td><td>null</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Consequences

You are expected to understand and adhere to the server rules -- ignorance is not an excuse.

<table><thead><tr><th width="216">Consequence Type</th><th width="352">Result</th><th data-type="checkbox">Can be appealed?</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Light warning</td><td>Staff member reminds you to abide by the rules. No consequence is added to your account.</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td>Warning</td><td>Staff member reminds you to abide by the rules; a consequences is added to your account for a period of 60 days.</td><td>false</td></tr><tr><td>Mute</td><td>You are muted temporarily, for a period of time left to staff discretion.</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Temporary ban</td><td>You are temporarily banned from the server and muted on the Discord. Is automatically paired with a warning.</td><td>true</td></tr><tr><td>Permanent ban</td><td>Your account is permanently banned from Chertia.</td><td>true</td></tr></tbody></table>

All consequences are decided on a case-by-case basis involving at least two staff members, at least one of which must be an administrator. In cases where a consequence must be applied quickly but the extent/length of it has not yet been determined, you will receive a "holding ban", which will see you banned from the server for a period of time while we determine your final consequence. You may appeal your case during this time using our appeals form at the bottom of this page. New members will face much higher scrutiny.

Consequences are wiped from your record after 60 days. Note that **having 3 concurrent consequences on your record results in a ban that will last until a time when one of those consequences is wiped**, unless one of them is a permanent ban. Additionally, receiving 3 temporary bans will result in a permanent ban without appeal.

#### **Appeals**

If you have received a consequence and do not agree with it, you may appeal using our [**appeals form**](https://forms.gle/tf6AQCrLicfhHr1K9). Please send one of us a message once the form is submitted.

Severe infringement bans cannot be appealed.
